# xml-parsing-libraries 

## Introduction

As developers might be aware, data flows in the DEPA framework will be encoded in XML according to fixed schemas. [The schemas for each type of financial document can be found here](https://api.rebit.org.in/schema)

In order to make life easier for developers working with the DEPA framework, it would be useful to have open source libraries which can help with parsing this XML into useable and convenient objects or classes.

Ideally, we will write code which accepts an XML string as an input and returns some useable objects as an output. The exact nature of the output can vary according to the language and preference of the author writing the code.

Developers are free to write libraries in any language of their choosing, but it would be useful to have some written out for C#, Java, Python, and Node.js (as these appear to be the most popular languages amongst startups and IT companies).

[Some sample data for an XML string encoding a user's bank account information (according to the 'deposit' FI type) can be found here (in the Request Body in the section 'Adding User Account Transaction')](https://finvu.github.io/sandbox/fip_data_api/)

## Implementation

- While beginning to write the library, the developer should fetch all the schemas (xsd) and xml files from https://api.rebit.org.in/schema and store them as test data files.
- Languages which have a code generator for generating usable code using `.xsd` files, should generate this code. These files should be marked as generated and further modifications made, should be marked (in golang, it would be a separate file for the validations which are not generated by the code generator). This will make it easier to update the generated code in case the schema changes.
- Incase, there is no generator available, you can refer to other implementations and translate those.
- There should be a test for each parser which uses the test data fetched/committed to the project to check if the parser works. If and when sample data is available, that should also be added to the testdata.
- The xsd files can be removed from the project repository and can be linked to in the readme.
